# Assessing building damage after a seismic event

## Visual interpretation
This work explores an unsupervised multitemporal change detection method using Sentinel-1 imagery to assess building damage after the 2023 seismic event in Turkey. A dataset of destroyed buildings was prepared and shared here, alongside with a set of non-destroyed buildings selected randomly, and their 20m buffer. A time series of the mean backscatter intensity from return signal within the footprint of each destroyed building is evaluated to assess the change of trend after event. Then, an omnibus test is used to assess changes across the time series: polarimetric SAR data are represented by complex variance-covariance matrices, whose homogeneity is evaluated through a factorization of multiple independent likelihood ratio tests in the time series. To determine where and when a change has occurred in our time series, we implemented a sequential omnibus tests algorithm assessing the overall differences between distributions at multiple times. We obtain temporal change maps that allow to represent the timeline of occurrences of change.

## Method
From the review of the CEMS building assessment, we describe the process followed to produce our dataset of destroyed buildings footprints (section 5.1.1). Visual analysis was performed using VHR optical images before and after event, as well as ancillary information such as OSM footprints and Google street view. We obtained a total of 375 buildings footprints classified as ’Destroyed’ with a ’High’ level of confidence. We also randomly selected an equal number of ’Non-destroyed’ buildings for each Area of Interest (AOI), in order to compare the analyses of both damaged and non-damaged surfaces. From those 750 footprints, a buffer of 20m is shaped around to take in account co-registration of Sentinel-1 images, possible offsets or double bounce effects in urban areas.

## 
